---
categories:
- Life
date: 2008-07-29 04:38:00+00:00
image: /images/PikachuEmpireState1.jpg
status: public
title: NYC Part II
---




I escaped TV land to the streets with my new found geek companions. My Rolodex
was full of numbers the potentialist inside me screamed to possess but I'd
likely never call. As we treaded to Nintendo World a memory bubble played a
segment from my own childhood. This is exactly the kind of place I would have
dreamed of when I was twelve on family vacation and begged my father to visit
only to arrive with it closed for renovation. I couldn't help but tell every
twelve year old child I passed that less then a mile away existed a life sized
virtual reality chamber where "You too can stomp goombas and eat magic
mushrooms!" I could paint a picture of every mothers grimace.

It was pretty much twenty stories tall and I wandered as Link for two hours in
a real life representation of Hyrule. The balance board is fun too, I got a
perfect score in the surfing game, and now have the confidence to take waves
as tall as the Nintendo building. I'll be buying my real life surfboard with
my next paycheck. To be honest, I wanted to get out on my own again. I could
tell the guy from Wisconsin was a bit nervous with me around his girlfriend,
which makes sense... he knew she was obviously my type. So I kicked it after
lunch, after having a fight with some Time Square pizza jerks who tried to
charge me $50 for a slice I thought was only $30. I grabbed my bags, stole
some more cookies, and turned on my biological supercomputer to figure out the
NY Subway system.[![]({{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/2008/07/WorshipSub.jpg)](http://www.woodenfox.com/wp-
content/uploads/2008/07/WorshipSub.jpg)NY Subway Worship

Imagine re-entering your mothers womb. Of course... huge, cement and filled
with many other people trying to do the same thing. The New York Subway
possess all the grit, damp, steaming, burning sweaty air of a sauna with its
bench on fire. Flailing, towel waving old men and all. It is so symbolic of
New York, there is a entire religion dedicated to its worship, and felt as if
I had just been inducted. A masochists dream, the suffering which occurs
before your A, B, 1, 2 or three arrives is legendary, lucky for all you
sadists out their the misery is shared by all. When it pulls to a stop and the
doors slide open it is reminiscent of stepping into a mountain lake at 10,000
feet. A flood of cool air pours out and crawls up your arms, neck, and with a
shiver finally over your head. Everything moves fast. I with a 50 pound pack
filled with useless cold weather cloths strapped to my back, sent people
toppling over in piles like bowling pins with every turn. The subway is
amazing. I absolutely love it.

Upon exiting and coming to the surface from what felt like a teleporter,
conception of distance traveled could only be measured in the change in the
people and scenery around me. "Union Square" this was the home of the True New
Yorker, I could feel it boiling my blood. Everything was real, and alive. It
possessed all the spirit and soul Time Square lacked.  
[![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2008/07/GIANT-FOX-UNION-SQUARE-
copy.jpg)](http://www.woodenfox.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/GIANT-FOX-
UNION-SQUARE-copy.jpg)

Union Square, 16 Story Fox

I engendered a endless, but beautiful walk to my hostel for the night.
Arriving only to find it's width to be approximate to my arms reach. I
deposited my pack, and set out to make my possessions look as worthless as
possible, placing my ratty green shoes on the pillow, and various wrappers,
trash and distractions to encourage anyone curious to believe my bag did not
happen to contain my 17" Sony laptop. I could hear people outside wailing in
such a way that could only be the result of a sixteen-story fox consuming them
one by one, but was focused in my task. One of my soon to be eight roommates,
a portly man with a full size keyboard cellphone informed me as to a bar where
every drink gets you free pizz... and without even finishing his sentence I
had departed to acquire some.

The Gator Bar. Impressive. The bartender wore a flat brimmed hat, huge black
sideburns, a nose of legendary proportions, a runway goatee, and a styled
greased mustache. He was Cyrano De Bergerac incarnate and if not with his
arms, but with his smile, he could obviously wrestle an an alligator.  
[![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2008/07/CerenoGaTOR-
copy.jpg)](http://www.woodenfox.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/CerenoGaTOR-
copy.jpg)

The Impressive Bartender

I ordered a some SlyFox from the tap, a brilliant ale. Within a few minutes an
full bodied orchestra played a micro-symphony as my pizza arrived, but
immediately cut off as the plate hit the table. The thick amber ale and pie
satisfied my body while conversation with locals satisfied my mind. We all
came to the conclusion that my act on television was merely a drop in the
machine fueling the numbing, dumbing, down of America, and it was acts like
these that get people like Bush into office. They were brassy, crass, and had
an ounce of sass. They were all manners of ass, and I loved them.

The timbre of my type is growing dissonant... to be continued.

