---
categories:
- Rants
date: 2008-05-03 05:24:00+00:00
image: /images/gandhi-statue.jpg
status: public
title: A Dream Worth Striving For
---




Oh music. I just watched a French film entitled "The Chorus." Obviously this
isn't its native title, it's the bastardized American translation of the
equally generic French title "Les Choristes." In reading the box, I found the
plot to be generic. Teacher goes to undisciplined students, they learn music,
students are reformed. Very predictable. I actually rented this movie
partially because that predictability is somewhat soothing. I was a great fan
of Mr. Hollands Opus, To Sir With Love, Dead Poets Society and many others on
that endless conceptual list. The lead male roles draw me in. They are
fathers, mentors, creators, dreamers and shape and blossom community's around
them in such a way that strikes me with awe. For the purpose of simplicity, I
will call these men Shepard's. Christian analogy's aside, this seems fitting.

I've grown quite fond of the Shepard. He is often takes the form of a clever
teacher who finds unique ways to reach his students. Naturally he is firm but
at the same time just and forgiving. He is charming, has a sharp wit, and a
distaste for authority. He need not be handsome, he may in fact be bald! He is
enamored with the success of his students, and perhaps a bit in the clouds,
often breaking the rules and treading on others feet on their behalf. He is an
ever vigilant father figure. In the movies he always has a weakness, usually
the unattainable woman, and it is in this you see his humanity. This however
is irrelevant. In the end. He does not get the girl. He rarely becomes renown.
He simply grows old quietly. His only legacy... the students he's touched.
This movie did not disappoint. Beyond another incarnation of my favorite
character, it reminded me of a time when I was in Symphonic band. Preforming
in a group of fifty individuals, all watching our director Ken Carter, who was
nearly one of those men himself. I realized at some point through the movie,
that this was type of man I wished to be. I realized at some point that this
is what I have always wished to be. A "Shepard".

I've come up with a word for people who posses characteristics I admire, or
seek. A person can become more then just a person, they can become a symbol
incarnate for idea or a dream. The essence of these individuals aspires beyond
there mortality. I have been referring to such individuals is "Avatars."
Avatar is most commonly associated with the Indian god Visnu. In Indian
culture an _avatƒÅra_ is the earthly form assumed by a deity. Hindu analogy's
aside, this seems fitting.

I have always been a stark individualist. Striving to succeed independently,
self taught. A part of me has a deep fear of becoming mealy an amalgamation of
my surroundings, and I've tried in the past years foolishly to cloister myself
in order to prevent my creations from being tainted. I believe I always knew
this was impossible, but still I avoided mimicry of others work and words,
even as a tool for learning. It has taken me many years to choose individuals
to look up to again. I once called these individuals hero's. I'm not looking
for hero's anymore. Hero's die. They're legendary for it. I'm looking for
human embodiments of concepts, Avatars. These individuals existence is
irrelevant, they are just collections of ideas and dreams. The process I have
gone through has made me realize what I am doing is probably not unlike what
our ancient ancestors did in there creation of Deity's. Ancestor worship is
the first recorded religion known, it only makes sense that after enough time,
the story's would begin to merge and individuals once renowned for one great
dead would take on those of others of his time. Eventually the story's would
be forgotten all together  
and become pure symbols, become myth. And so the first gods were born.

It has been odd watching my rational journey. Every day I look closer only to
see myself shifting to what I might call "empirical spiritualism." I don't
worship Avatars, but I do study them, spend great deals of time thinking of
them, and modeling my actions as I see them. In a sense this is a sort of
worship. I don't believe in Divine energy traveling through the cosmos to fuel
there deific (I think this word is a combination of Deity and Terrific!)
powers over the universe. But in a way that energy is real. Through my study I
become an Avatar myself, and in turn I influence those around me. I find
myself foolish yet again, realizing the grand enlightenment I build for myself
boils itself down to mere semantics ::Sighs:: At the same time I am proud. I'm
proud to have come to these realizations on my own, and I'm proud to feel I
know why I'm doing what I'm doing.

The Shepard is an Avatar I respect and wish to some day embody myself. It's
not about ego or self. It's about ideas, and dreams. That which is immortal.
Striving to become the embodiment of a concept is beautiful. In a sense it is
about letting go of the individual, the self, and dedicating your existence
towards something greater. It's not about the desire to change those around
you. Mahatma Gandhi, to me a is an Avatar of the Shepard, once said, "You must
be the change you wish to see in the world." I would add... "It is through the
strength of your embodiment, not your words that change will come." One need
not have heard, or even known a word Mahatma Gandhi said to feel the power of
his ideas, or dreams.

This is a dream worth striving for.

