---
author:
  display_name: mike
  email: woodenfox@gmail.com
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
  login: mike
categories:
- Life
- Rants
date: 2008-05-04 06:40:00+00:00
image: /images/First-Wacom-Sketch-copy.jpg
layout: post
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
  _thumbnail_id: '233'
  blogger_blog: woodenfox.blogspot.com
  blogger_permalink: /2008/05/ive-been-lusting-for-wacom-tablet-for.html
parent_id: '0'
password: ''
permalink: /192/
published: true
status: publish
tags: []
title: Wacom
type: post
---

I've been lusting for a Wacom tablet for god knows how many years. It is
basically a pen and a writing pad that translates your motions and pen
pressure to the computer. In a wild foray into San Jose involving a several
hour tour through the guitar shops while my good friend Marc was searching for
a Les Paul guitar, of which his spending budget was a little over two-thousand
dollars, the only destination on my mind was my ex-work Best Buy. In my
scammings I had accumulated a large number of "RewardZone Points" from my
patriotic excess spending this last holiday season. A Nintendo Wii which I
resold, and the laptop I bought my parents ($299) for which they forcefully
paid me back. Unbeknown to them, with that laptop I happened to get a free HP
printer worth $79 which I kept, and a 4GB Microsoft Zune which I resold for
$100. Thanks Mom & Dad, it was the best Christmas ever!. I also purchased a
large number of other toys which I played with, and returned before the
January 31st Christmas returns deadline. Buying things and playing with them
all Christmas long is the best and only kind of Christmas. You feel joyful and
exhilarated during and shallow and empty afterwards. Ahh, it seems I've
discovered a way to feel the joy and suffering of materialism without the
financial burden! The total expenses were in the ranges of $1k. My "Reward"
for all this tomfoolery came in the form of a $45 gift card, several months
later. Not much, but made me especially happy knowing I got it without
spending a dime.

People have weird fucking hobbies.

I could rant forever on this subject, so to make a long story short... I saw
they had an open box Wacom tablet ($169), I bartered with the manager, got an
extra $20 off, and walked out of there with my credit card $105 lighter ($199
- $50 - $45 = $105). I've been playing with it all night, and have been really
satisfied. Ominous as it seemed to me at first, it only took me about thirty
minutes to configure it in Linux! The clever little picture above, although
not spectacular, is my first sketch. Very cool.

Now not only do you get the joy of my poignant poetry, but my awful art as
well.

